first draft AL gaze on face (#674)
pupil-labs/pupil-docs: alpha-lab/gaze-on-face/index.md

---
title: "Mapping Gaze Onto Facial Landmarks"
description: "Map gaze onto facial landmarks using Pupil Cloud’s Face Mapper exported data."
permalink: /alpha-lab/gaze-on-face/
meta:
  - name: twitter:card
    content: summary
  - name: twitter:image
    content: "https://i.ytimg.com/vi/nt_zNSBMJWI/maxresdefault.jpg"
  - name: twitter:player
    content: "https://www.youtube.com/embed/bWCLXPZa8zs"
  - name: twitter:width
    content: "1280"
  - name: twitter:height
    content: "720"
  - property: og:image
    content: "https://i.ytimg.com/vi/nt_zNSBMJWI/maxresdefault.jpg"
tags: [Neon, Cloud]
---

<script setup>
import TagLinks from '@components/TagLinks.vue'
</script>

# Map Gaze Onto Facial Landmarks

<TagLinks :tags="$frontmatter.tags" />

<Youtube src="bWCLXPZa8zs"/>

::: tip
Decode the cues of social interactions and cognition: Does your attention drift towards your friend's eyes, or do you gaze at their lips as they talk? This guide provides a roadmap to map gaze on facial landmarks using the output of our Face Mapper enrichment.
:::

## Analyzing Social Interactions: Mapping Gaze Onto Facial Landmarks 

> Understanding where individuals direct their attention during social interactions is of significant importance across various research domains. From developmental research, exploring how infants and children focus on specific facial features at different developmental stages, to clinical psychology and the study of atypical behaviours, such as autism spectrum disorder.

Author: ```suggestion
Understanding where individuals direct their attention during social interactions is of significant importance across various research domains. From developmental research, exploring how infants and children focus on facial features at different developmental stages, to clinical psychology and the study of atypical behaviours, such as autism spectrum disorder.
```

In this guide, we'll show you how to map gaze onto facial landmarks using data exported from Pupil Cloud's Face Mapper enrichment.

## Introducing AOI Mapping for Facial Landmarks 

> Pupil Cloud offers a [Face Mapper enrichment](https://docs.pupil-labs.com/neon/pupil-cloud/enrichments/face-mapper/) that tracks faces in scene videos, determines if they were gazed at, and provides coordinates for facial landmarks of the faces. However, it does not reveal which facial landmarks the wearer's gaze targets. That is, do they look at the mouth, eyes, or nose?

Author: ```suggestion
Pupil Cloud offers a [Face Mapper enrichment](https://docs.pupil-labs.com/neon/pupil-cloud/enrichments/face-mapper/) that tracks faces in scene videos, determines if they were gazed at, and provides coordinates for facial landmarks. However, it does not reveal _which_ facial landmarks were gazed at. That is, did they look at the mouth, eyes, or nose?
```

This guide introduces a tool to generate Areas of Interest (AOIs) around each facial landmark (like in the video above) and correlate the wearer's gaze with these. In short, it automatically identifies which facial landmarks were gazed at on the interlocutor's face.

## Setting Up Your Study

> When setting up your experiment, precise mapping of gaze on facial landmarks depends on two crucial factors: the proximity between the wearer and the target face, and the viewing angle.

Author: ```suggestion
When setting up your experiment, accurate mapping of gaze on facial landmarks depends on two crucial factors: the proximity between the wearer and the target face, and the viewing angle.
```

> When setting up your experiment, precise mapping of gaze on facial landmarks depends on two crucial factors: the proximity between the wearer and the target face, and the viewing angle directed towards the face.

Author: ```suggestion
When setting up your experiment, precise mapping of gaze on facial landmarks depends on two crucial factors: the proximity between the wearer and the target face, and the viewing angle.

> When setting up your experiment, precise mapping of gaze on facial landmarks hinges on two crucial factors: the proximity between the wearer and the target face, and the viewing angle directed towards the face.

Author: ```suggestion
When setting up your experiment, precise mapping of gaze on facial landmarks depends on two crucial factors: the proximity between the wearer and the target face, and the viewing angle directed towards the face.
```

> For example, closer proximity results in facial landmarks appearing larger in the scene video; while viewing angle can cause AOIs on facial landmarks to overlap. 

Author: ```suggestion
For example, a wearer too far from the target face can result in facial landmarks appearing too small in the scene video. At the same time, sub-optimal viewing angles can cause AOIs on facial landmarks to be too small, and/or overlap. A wearer that is both close and directly facing the target face is therefore more optimal.
```

> It is therefore important to optimize the AOI radius depending on the target’s distance and viewing angle. A small AOI radius might inadequately cover the facial landmark of interest, leading to inaccuracies in gaze mapping. Conversely, a larger AOI radius might cause AOIs to overlap. Such overlap complicates the accurate mapping of gaze, as distinguishing foreground landmarks becomes challenging.

Author: ```suggestion
It is therefore important to optimize the AOI radius depending on the target’s proximity and viewing angle. A small AOI radius might not cover the whole facial landmark of interest, leading to inaccurate gaze mapping. Conversely, a larger AOI radius might cause AOIs to overlap. Overlap can make it difficult to distinguish exactly which landmark was being gazed at.
```

## Steps To Recreate

> 1. Download a [Timeseries Data + Scene video]() from your project in Pupil Cloud.

Author: where's the link here?

2. Download the [Face Mapper export](https://docs.pupil-labs.com/neon/pupil-cloud/enrichments/face-mapper/) from your project in Pupil Cloud.
Upload (uncompressed) one of the subfolders (recording folder) that you're interested in to Google Drive from the raw data export.
3. Follow the instructions of this [Github repository](https://github.com/pupil-labs/gaze-on-facial-landmarks) and start mapping gaze on facial landmarks.

::: tip

> Consider applying [offset correction](https://docs.pupil-labs.com/neon/data-collection/offset-correction/#using-offset-correction-to-improve-gaze-accuracy) for even more accurate mapping of gaze on facial landmarks. 

Author: ```suggestion
Consider applying [offset correction](https://docs.pupil-labs.com/neon/data-collection/offset-correction/#using-offset-correction-to-improve-gaze-accuracy) before the recording(s) for even more accurate mapping of gaze on facial landmarks. 
```

:::

## Explore the Gaze Mapping Output

> After running the code, new files will be generated. These files will be automatically saved within the folder that contains the Face Mapper enrichment data. Specifically, you will get:

Author: ```suggestion
After running the code, new files will be generated and automatically saved within the folder that contains the Face Mapper enrichment data. Specifically, you will get:
```

---

> title: "Mapping Gaze Onto Facial Landmarks"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "Map Gaze Onto Facial Landmarks"
```
